it's a saffron room look at that
thousands of dollars of saffron and how
much is this here is four stalks of you
4,000 year old just as a base price it's
amazing take it I'm just gonna push
these up we got myself run all right
check it out guys there's Trevor James
we just got into Mashhad with mr. taster
and today this is a full-on Food City
we're going for a huge Persian food
adventure so now we're gonna go for
Halim which is famous too it's a big
very fast in Masha it's really famous in
a shop where my shop and then we're
gonna go to a local house which they got
lots of food for us and then we're gonna
go for saffron Pollan sat on Persian
gold factory tour
[Music]
today we're going into the world's
largest saffron factory and going right
out to the fields to see how saffron is
grown worth more than gold so make sure
to watch all the way until the end and
leave us a comment below
let's eat and here we are machette 4
a.m. just got in and we're starting
today on strong
yeah with Helene a lean beef and mutton
wheat yes you exactly and in Mashhad the
difference between Halim in russia and
iran is the put famous you in mansion
game is today it's really not again be
with us let's go try it out
so this is where it starts and they got
the facts and now it's really almost
over here that's like famous use these
for lintels we've got lamb and put
onions in it Wow look at that one tomato
yeah oh and this is where it all starts
yeah so we're gonna mix that wheats -
exactly with the beef there we go
that's full and it's just starting
through I'm out at the bottom
there comes it's smoothed out or a soul
oh and he's just adding in a little bit
of that wheat water and it's coming
right out at the bottom so this is a
famous breakfast dish
yes you mean it's really hip heavy right
and early yeah he'll be happy yeah it'll
fill you how many dates finish about
8:00 a.m. 8:00 a.m. yeah and look at
that that wheat stew is just coming
right out and goes in here Wow it's just
dancing oh here comes the beef the head
looks juicy so they're gonna pound this
out first yes and then put it in so
we're manually putting in that
hand-pounded
beef with the week it goes oh my
goodness look at how thick it is
I didn't know it's that hard so you can
see we're just adding in scoop after
scoop of this wheat into the beef and
it's getting mixed in smoother and
smoother it smells so delicious and
that'll fill you up in the morning yeah
that's heavy Oh high speed oh and there
it is the wheat and beef stew going
right in so the beef and wheat is gonna
get fully mixed in here it's gonna be
hand mixed look at that
oh and here's the butter it's gonna go
in the butter going in oh that's where
it gets the heaviness that right there
is pure butter this is the finished
product here it goes right in this
bucket and it's gonna get dumped in to
the giant tough look at that right in
and it's gonna be mix it the lamb stew
look at the hilum we're gonna get our
first pull there's the butter then it's
gonna get scooped out Wow look at that
right in the bowl there's the lamb and
lentil just gonna go right on top that's
the magic that's a budget you that is
gonna be really really delicious
oh and butter yeah oh that's some
cinnamon and some cinnamon Nancy nice
Kelly and I scale a mercy it looks good
let's go try it out yeah you can smell
that cinnamon oh it's like a wheat paste
yeah look uh Wow and I really love the
smell of the cinnamon on top there
[Music]
oh wow and I think that lambs do they
add on top really makes a difference
gives it a bit of that aroma from the
meat from the light spices and next up
before the factory tour we're driving
out deep into the countryside of Mashhad
to see one of the most unique things
ever recorded on this channel the
saffron farms of Iran and here we are
good morning from saffron land it is
5:00 a.m. the Sun is just rising and
we're gonna drive out into the country
and see the wild saffron and we are off
and we're gonna go see the flowers open
on the saffron and it's a beautiful
sight to see yeah saffron in the morning
I've never seen in my whole life
so they mean either this is worth more
than gold per kilo yeah and it's
exported all across the world
exactly and we've been travelling for
the last almost 10 days yeah and a lot
of the food that we've been having here
had this in it you know what we think we
think saffron is gifts from God
oh really yeah because you can't go
anywhere in the world so we're gonna
take a close look here and then drive to
the saffron King's Factory
yeah we're gonna meet mr. Shetty he's
real king of saffron and you're gonna
see his factory and processing the
saffron and
these ladies are gonna pick the flower
yeah the saffron and here we are these
ladies are just starting the harvest
Zephyr run and you can see we're hand
picking this saffron piece-by-piece
Wow look at this we got a big basket of
saffron
that's all pure saffron flower and
Hameed was telling us that 90 kg of the
flower produces only 1 kg of the final
product and look at this this is pure
Persian saffron so aromatic oh that is
pure Persian gold and look at this we're
deep in the deserts of Persia it doesn't
get any better
and we're handpicking saffron as we
speak
and then it's so beautiful this is a
full basket no staff right now is that
her own me hey who does that matter is
that matte the earth
that's the neck in only three strands
per flower I'm gonna see you can just
drop your sugar into this black tea
merci merci and we're just hanging out
good this is the subtle powder with the
black tea and you can just add the
saffron in saffron tea and sugar yeah I
do like this oh just drop it in very
delicious drink and go so we're gonna
finish our tea hang out a bit and then
we're going to the factory factory to
see the how its processed yeah and have
a big lunch
exactly let's do it and next up before
our beautiful home
Persian village feast in the countryside
we're going to visit the world's largest
saffron export factor and before the
saffron factory I think we're stopping
ya at a pomegranate stop oh and this is
the pomegranate garden oh these are
pomegranate we came to a little
pomegranate places we're on our way to
the saffron factory and look at this we
got thousands of pomegranate trees Wow
okay and we're just gonna cut that
Beauty open oh and look at that it's a
pomegranate bowl look at that here
rubies doesn't get any better than that
and there's no better feeling than
getting full-on pomegranate and we're
going to the saffron factory now thank
you
there's yes we're going into the saffron
factory guys and here we are
salut saffron factory number one saffron
yeah exporter exact in the world of war
yeah that's super cool and first before
heading down right over here into this
massive saffron factory we're gonna have
a local dish that's holy it's like an
upgraded Halim stew
this is Helene Helene wheat and here -
yeah that's the one and this is the real
special here right this is Shirley
Shirley
so it's meat meat rice and beans and
it's for energy yeah that looks thick
yeah look at the consistency there it
takes almost 24 hours to cook it and you
can't find it only measure only measured
over your chole
yeah
[Laughter]
thank you thank you this is really nice
Bebo and mr. Ali here's the king of
sorrow he's gonna be showing us around
this big factory Oh saffron on the chole
look at that you can see the saffron mix
it together let's try it out this is
gonna go watch a chole madam we're going
into the saffron factory now yeah we're
going down into the South one here it is
oh wow that's the red gold oh look at
how fine it is it's really pure yes this
is the best of the best use one after
this and how much is this here it's four
thousand euro four thousand euros just
as a base price it's amazing
take it oh is it
saffron it's red but to suffer oh my
goodness
it's a saffron room look at that
this is amazing yes it's very premium
quality yes one of the best in there
this is a little more but not too much
saraghina
J's are chosen so you know he doesn't
leave each one of these so we're looking
at a lot of euros right here this is
pretty much money right here I'm just
gonna push these out we got my saffron
shopping card here Wow and this is the
production line here that the packing
room oh wow look at these and we're
going into the sorting station here
you come inside and have it okay you
turn and rotate oh there we go okay like
a marshmallow so this is where it all
starts first open it open it I took to
add a red spot and then separate the red
from your oh oh there it is there it is
okay I got it
so that's the saffron yes now you should
separate from this to you from here yes
in Spain they they took it there yes
just like that
mr. Ali was mentioning that this right
here
saffron can help with so many ailments
depression helps you feel healthy gives
you energy and I can see why it's so
expensive because so many hours are put
into producing every single gram what an
amazing experience to see the saffron
the big bags the laboratory the sorting
the separation thank you for having us
it's amazing well really amazing well
thank you so much for having us here you
happy thing you feel happy with saffron
thank you very much for having thank you
bye bye thank you that was really cool
and we're off and to finish up the night
we're going out deep into the
countryside for a very rare Persian
village meal
and we're just driving out way into the
countryside here we are thank you
[Music]
Thank You Silla oh and this is where you
put your feet under to stay warm you
like that thing so we're gonna have some
kebab yeah music could be there could be
there we're gonna have koobideh
with this beautiful music it just got it
[Music]
oh and here we go could be the head
right on the girl it doesn't get any
better than that
oh those coupie day those are ready look
at these sizzling and loaded with fat
and downstairs is where they're cooking
the traditional food I made was saying
he hasn't seen it in 20 years
oh well we walked into was a purely
magical village kitchen seldom seen
anymore with so many dishes being made
in front of our eyes like this rich
walnuts - then this curd and eggplant
and mints do Wow so this is the solid
curd and it's gonna get liquid coming
out of it
and he's gonna go in with the aubergine
vision mascara you hit that was solid
curd and now it's liquid
when it's going right in just eggplant
tomato onion Oh mint Wow this is the
ouch that's the Persian noodle mints -
oh and this is just amazing we've got a
ton of different local specialties here
we've got the ghost
look at that lamb right on the bone here
we've got a lentil stew this is that
pistachio walnut herbal stew and then
we've got pure meat over here as well
and this is just amazing
grandma is cooking up some amazing rare
Persian food we and milk and that's
going upstairs
Wow and that's just one of five or six
different things
look at this it's all laid out all of
these dishes in this beautiful Persian
village home and we got a lot here today
yep we got local bread yeah it looks
like it's full of whole wheat exactly
and what else we've got this lentil and
milk yeah this is publishing with Kurt
this is a gourmet horror funny
the pure ghost and then we've got the
rice yeah we do it here right and this
is it's gonna banner which we'd avoid
pistachio walnuts spices onions Oh
I mean tuna and mint yeah this is that's
it's a meat blanket and what's this here
this is oh yeah you love this version
noodle dish so look at this homemade or
May which is with bones bones yeah the
juiciest is the juiciest material cooked
in its own fat yeah exactly
let's try it out
oh oh that's the most tender meat in the
world right there and now it's time for
the kebab yeah go for it the COO bday
take that or the bread take that Kuby
death hmm it's pure lamb flavor luck
fatty Melvin your mouth you barely need
your teeth yeah there it is right there
aubergine curd tomato Manion you know
everything has an herbal minty flavor
exactly yeah
and this is village cooking style yeah
you just dip that up with bread up oh
[Music]
and this is next up yeah the ashkenazi
skinny which is that pistachio walnut
mint yeah sauce right at you yeah white
pistachio yeah like this with the bread
wow that's a crispy bread
yeah crisp bread oven baked yeah and
just mix it on yeah and then it soaks up
the sauce yeah and you go for it yeah
mm-hmm it's really nice it's really nice
it feels nutty exact and bitter
yeah and minty yeah mm-hmm oh and here's
the pomegranate
that's beautiful it's at all the big
seeds there yeah and everyone's just
sharing it right now finishing up the
meal this is truly amazing place here
the best pomegranate in the world yeah
in Iran that is top quality Wow nice
presentation there doesn't that look
beautiful
yeah it does just try it out Oh
oh oh so juicy yeah it is fortune
Burstyn thank you bye bye bye bye thank
you gotta give a big thanks to Mister
taster and of course Ali Persia tour
guide from peach Grove Ola and you guys
can check out come to Persia calm as
you're thinking of coming to Iran they
put together this amazing itinerary for
us it's been a life-changing experience
they got to give a big thanks thank you
thank you so much thanks a lot guys
leave us a comment down below